---
permalink: /
title: "About"
excerpt: "About me"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

Hi! My name is Nick Roy and I am an economist focused on climate policy in the United States. My work has primarily focused on power sector decarbonization and I have a general background in international trade and transportation research. I'll be applying to graduate programs this upcoming cycle to start a PhD in Fall 2025. This website serves as a place for me to collect my work I have done so far, and as a home for future work throughout my career.

Currently, I am a [Research Associate at Resources for the Future (RFF)](https://www.rff.org/people/nicholas-roy/). Here I have developed and utilized the [Haiku Electricity Market Model](https://www.rff.org/topics/data-and-decision-tools/haiku-electricity-model/) to analyze climate policy. I started by working broadly on the development of federal climate policy first by analyzing potential [components of the Build Back Better package](https://www.rff.org/publications/issue-briefs/cost-analysis-and-emissions-projections-under-power-sector-proposals-in-reconciliation/) and as time progressed, [the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA)](https://www.rff.org/publications/issue-briefs/retail-electricity-rates-under-the-inflation-reduction-act-of-2022/). Since then I have worked on the development of California's Cap-and-Trade program looking at market reforms to ensure robust emissions reductions and integrate environmental justice policy design mechanisms. The continuation of our federal climate policy work exists in the Carbon Scoring Project which aims to develop a methodology for socring the carbon impact of a bill similar to how the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) scores the budgetary impact of legislation. 

Prior to RFF I was a student at California State University of Long Beach. I graduated with a B.S. in Applied Mathematics, a B.A. in Mathematical Economic Theory, and a minor in Philosophy. During my studies, I researched port drayage disruptions my senior year at the Center for International Trade and Transportation (CITT). The summer before I interned at RFF studying heavy duty trailer energy efficiency device adoption. My work at CITT and RFF gave me useful background knoweledge when I assisted in the devleopment of RFF's MHDV decarbonization model. I also took graduate coursework in Regression Analysis, Calculus of Variations, Microeconomic Theory, Econometrics, and Research Methods to greatly improve the quality of my work. 

Before I developed my passion for research, I interned at Goldman Sachs 10,000 Small Businesses fostering local economic development. I moved deeper into my studies and began to tutor mathematics and teach freshman organizational skills as a peer mentor and tutor. As President of the Economics Student Association, I found plenty of opportunities to mentor students and build community in our department. I am still involved with the organization today and annually host a workshop on environmental economics as well as restarting the alumni mentorship program. 

Future Research
======
Through my experiences I've become increasingly interested in the intersection of climate policy and trade. Working closely on the development of the IRA, it became clear that the biggest constraint on addressing greenhouse gas emissions is the quickly evolving post-neoliberal era of trade. Even the second order effects of globalization on labor and technological development are shaping the policy mechanisms chosen for decarbonization. One way this has already shaped climate policy is in the revitalization of industrial policy in the US. However I still think that carbon prices will play an important nuanced role even if it remains at subnational regions. Importantly, innovative dynamics such as cross-jurisdictional linking under an exchange rate regime could become important elements of trade relations more broadly. In my work I've already become intensely interested with the how this interacts with the design of price responsive emissions allowance supply. Carbon markets also bring forward more open criticism about distributional impacts of climate policy and can serve as interesting case studies of the political economy of climate policy. 

The tools of economics are more useful than ever as many of these issues can be studied through the subfields of industrial organization, political economy, international trade, and energy economics. I hope to take my research interests and develop a research agenda at the intersection of these issues in doctorate program.       
